Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a drama, thriller,
sci-fi film called “Replicas.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Biomedical research scientist Bill Foster
works at Bionyne, trying to transfer human
consciousness to robots.
He and his colleague Ed head the project and
get a call for a newly deceased soldier that
comes in as a donor.
They rush the soldier into their laboratory
and start the process to transfer his consciousness.
By injecting a needle into the eye, Bill maps
the human brain and uploads it to the robot.
Bill begins the imprinting procedure manually
by using a holographic interface.
After a successful transfer, the team prepares
to awaken the robot.
The robot goes online, and Bill asks if he
knows what’s happening.
The robot looks around but starts freaking
out, shouting and screaming, asking to know
who he is.
Bill tries to calm the robot down, but it
starts tearing itself apart.
Bill is left with no choice but to pull the
plug.
Bill goes to talk to his boss, Jones, and
tells him they’re gaining more progress
as the robot now, for the first time, speaks.
Jones is unimpressed as, according to their
timeframe, they should be much farther ahead
with the project.
Jones tells Bill they don’t have much time
before the higher-ups shut their department
down.
Bill heads home to his wife Mona and their
children Sophie, Matt, and Zoe.
The family prepares for a weekend getaway
boat trip, and Ed comes in, to house sit.
Ed and Bill talk about the project’s progress,
and he tells him about what Jones said earlier.
Mona overhears and expresses her concerns
about the ethical implications of their experiments.
Bill counters that actual scientific progress
requires sacrifice.
Bill then cites the times Mona had to bring
people back to life but Mona reasons out that
her patients don’t tear themselves apart.
Mona worries that Bill could slowly start
to have a distorted view of what it means
to be human and to be alive, but Bill assures
her everything will be fine.
During the ride to the pier, the family runs
into a heavy rainstorm.
Bill’s vision becomes extremely limited,
and the family almost collides head-on with
a semi-truck.
Bill successfully swerves away from the semi
only to run into a fallen tree.
A branch impales Mona’s stomach, and Bill
loses control of the car.
They run off the road and crash into a river.
Bill regains consciousness and sees Mona is
dead.
He checks on his children and sees they’re
all underwater.
Bill struggles to get his drowned family out
of the water and lays them down on the river
bank.
He weeps, caressing his family’s lifeless
bodies.
While cradling Mona’s corpse, Bill gets
a revelation and dials Ed.
Bill heads to the roadside and waves down
a confused Ed.
They unload the brain mapping equipment, and
Bill leads the way.
Ed is terrified to see the Foster family lying
dead and immediately understands what Bill
intends to do.
Ed disagrees and wants to call the police
but does it anyway, with little convincing
from Bill.
They take the family’s brains, map them,
and store them.
The pair heads back into Bionyne and goes
to Ed’s office, intending to collect cloning
equipment.
Ed tells Bill that Bionyne can clone animals,
but human cloning is banned.
Ed warns that the cloning process is not perfected,
and previous animal clones have come back
defective.
Regardless, Bill is still determined to go
through with his plan.
Ed then agrees to meet Bill at the Foster
residence with the cloning pods.
Bill is surprised to see that Ed has only
brought the company’s three cloning pods.
Bill needs four pods, but Ed tells him this
is all the company has.
Bill is then left with a tough decision to
leave one of his children out of the cloning
procedure.
He places their names in a bowl and picks
one name as the child he won’t clone.
He’s incredibly distraught to see it’s
the youngest Zoe who would stay dead.
In the basement, Bill and Ed set up the cloning
pods.
Ed informs Bill that the cloning process is
exceptionally delicate, and the pods must
never lose power.
Bill then goes to steal every car battery
from the neighborhood.
The cloning process would take 17 days, and
Bill has until then to figure out how to successfully
transfer the family’s consciousness to the
clones.
Ed asks what he intends to do about Zoe’s
situation, and Bill tells him he’ll have
to delete all of the family’s memories of
Zoe.
The following day, Bill begins work on the
brain mapping and deletes all the memories
the family had of Zoe.
Back at Bionyne, Jones informs Ed that if
they don’t successfully transfer human consciousness
into a robot, they’ll be forced to shut
the project down.
Ed calls Bill, telling him that the company
will have to liquidize their equipment if
they get shut down.
This would then reveal that they’ve stolen
the cloning pods.
Bill then orders Ed to keep watch over the
clones so they can exchange places.
Bill heads to Bionyne and immediately gets
quizzed by Jones and fellow employees about
the project’s progress.
He then sees a miniature cutout horse Zoe
made.
He then heads back to his house, where he
runs into Matt’s teacher, who stopped by
to ask where Matt has been for the past several
days.
The teacher tells Bill that Ed already informed
her that Matt has chickenpox.
Bill realizes that his family has individual
lives and social circles.
They’d probably be wondering at this point
where the family has been.
He then goes through their devices and accesses
their social accounts.
He makes up excuses for everyone, ranging
from being grounded to being sick.
Bill continues to work on trying to transfer
the family’s consciousness, but the simulations
keep failing.
The 17 days are now up, and he still has no
idea how to perfect the process.
Ed tells Bill that the clones can’t be kept
in the pods for too long as they’ll continue
to age and grow exponentially.
If they don’t get the clones out now, they
could age years within just a few hours.
Bill then decides to take the clones out and
sedate them for a few days while he tries
to fix the imprinting procedure.
Ed warns him that he can’t find a way to
improve the imprinting, then he’ll have
to kill the clones.
Several days pass, and Bill still doesn’t
have the answer to fixing the imprinting process.
He then now has to euthanize the clones.
He begins with Mona, and as he’s about to
inject her, he grabs her hand, and brain activity
spikes.
Ed arrives, and Bill is ecstatic about his
discovery.
Bill tells Ed that the imprinting process
has been failing as the brain knows that the
body they are in is not theirs.
That’s why, he argues, that the robot tried
to destroy itself.
The brain knew that it wasn’t in its body.
To combat this, Bill has to rewrite an algorithm
in the system, fooling the brain into thinking
that the body they’re being uploaded into
is their own body.
This is how they’ll solve the problem of
transferring consciousness to the robots.
As for the family, Bill theorizes that the
process will work flawlessly as he’ll be
transferring the consciousness into their
own bodies.
Bill and Ed initiate the transfer on Mona,
and everything runs smoothly.
They complete the imprint, and Mona starts
convulsing.
After a while, she stops and wakes up.
Bill has to put her to sleep again as he has
to clean the house and erase all evidence
of the procedure.
Ed is out of his mind, babbling and delighted,
as they’ve just fully cloned a human being.
Bill cleans up and tries to get everything
in the house as close to normal as possible.
He erases all evidence that Zoe ever existed
and heads to bed.
The following morning, he wakes up to the
family having breakfast.
Bill is pleased to see everyone back alive,
and he has breakfast with them.
He does, however, notice a few strange behaviors.
Matt places too much food on his plate and
spills some milk.
Mona goes out for a run and feels a strange
sensation where the original Mona got impaled
with a branch.
Ed calls Bill and tells him they have a new
donor, and they have to rush to the lab.
Bill arrives, and they begin the process.
Bill sees that the soldier’s brain is too
far gone and decides to cancel the imprinting.
He tells Ed that his conscience won’t allow
him to put another person into the machine
and make it suffer.
Bill then decides to make a copy of his own
brain and place that into the robot.
He heads to the bathroom, puts on the headgear,
and has a needle stab him in the eye to initiate
the brain mapping.
After the grueling process, Bill meets back
with Ed, and they talk about the new plan.
Bill says that the process will have a much
better chance with his mind as he’ll be
able to ask the robot.
He says he’ll start writing the algorithm
later that evening.
At home, Mona tells Bill that she feels something
wrong as she has no recollection of what’s
happened in the past several days.
Bill tells her maybe she’s sick and that
she should perhaps take a rest.
In the basement, Bill begins writing the algorithm
to trick the imprinted brain into accepting
the robot body.
Sophie wakes up from a nightmare, and Bill
rushes in to comfort her.
Sophie says she had a nightmare where her
mother dies, but Bill assures her that it
was all a dream.
Sophie goes back to sleep, and Bill carries
her to the basement to rework her brain.
He deletes more subconscious memories of Zoe
from Sophie’s brain.
Mona walks in as he’s working and demands
to know the truth.
With no coercion, Bill confesses the truth.
He tells her that they’ve all died in a
car crash, and they are clones.
Mona demands Bill takes the equipment off
of Sophie, and they head back to the living
room.
Mona is in shock, realizing she’s died and
she’s a copy.
Bill tells her that what matters is she’s
alive, and he loves her just as much.
Their family is here, and Bill says he’ll
do anything to keep them.
At dinner, Sophie asks who Zoe is as she’s
seen the name written in her closet.
Mona also feels something is wrong and tells
Bill she remembers a bunk bed in Sophie’s
bedroom too, but it’s not there anymore.
Jones gives the family a surprise visit, and
he and Bill step out to talk.
Jones reveals that he’s found out about
the clones and tells Bill that the clones
need to be eliminated.
Bill tries to bargain, offering the algorithm
in exchange for the family.
He argues this would make Bionyne an incredibly
successful biomedical company.
Jones laughs this off and asks Bill if he
still believes Bionyne is an actual medical
company.
He tells him nobody would pay a considerable
amount of money just to revive a dead soldier.
He reveals that Bionyne is, and always has
been, a military contractor.
The imprinting of consciousness in a robot
isn’t for revival but for creating a robotized
army.
The company’s primary goal is to place the
best soldiers, the best pilots, and the best
analytical brains into thousands of robots
for war.
Jones then offers Bill a chance to say goodbye
to his family before they are taken.
Bill then retrieves the algorithm, but as
he hands it to Jones, he stabs him with sedative,
and Jones falls.
Bill rushes in and tells the family people
from Bionyne are after them.
Bill places the algorithm copy in the microwave
destroying it.
Bill also ends up telling the truth to Mona
about Zoe.
He tells Mona she can get angry at him for
everything, but first, they have to escape.
They sneak past the guards and drive away.
The guards give chase, able to track them
via implants in their spines.
Mona gets an idea to disable the trackers,
so they head to her clinic.
She places the kids on a table and uses a
defibrillator to shock them and destroy the
implants.
The Bionyne goons catch up and track them
to the building.
They go through the rooms, but the trackers
disappear one by one, and the family escapes.
Bill then plans to escape using the boat at
the pier.
He goes in to see if the keys are in and leaves
the family in the car.
Unfortunately, Bionyne henchmen arrive and
take the family.
At Bionyne, Mona and Ed are interrogated.
Ed tells her that he had no choice but to
admit everything to Jones.
Bill arrives and tries again to negotiate,
but Jones shoots Ed and threatens to shoot
Mona.
Bill is left with no choice but to give them
another copy of the algorithm for the successful
brain mapping and imprinting procedure.
Little did Jones know, Bill was not only creating
the algorithm, but he was also uploading his
consciousness to the experimental robot at
the lab.
By the time Bill finishes the algorithm, the
robot comes online.
Bill hands the algorithm to Jones, but the
robot with Bill’s consciousness arrives.
A shootout occurs, but the robot disables
everyone.
Mona and Bill escape with the kids, but before
driving away, Bill goes back into Bionyne.
He sees the robot killing Jones and orders
it to stop.
Bill approaches Jones, but Jones tells him
that Bionyne would simply send more men after
him and the family.
Bill offers a deal: Bionyne lets them go free,
and he’ll give them the knowledge for successful
human cloning.
Jones agrees.
The robot offers to remain with Jones to make
more clones and tells Bill to leave and take
care of the family.
Seventeen days pass, and the Foster family
is enjoying a beautiful day at the beach.
Bill joins Mona and the kids, along with a
young Zoe, fresh from the cloning pod.
In Dubai, Jones meets with a rich older man,
paralyzed in a wheelchair.
Jones is offered money, and they step into
a room where the robot waits to initiate the
cloning process.